# Project ASAP: Solar PV Siting Survey for Anchorage, Alaska

The project will determine the technical siting potential for commercial-scale solar photovoltaic (PV) installations of
1,000 kW (AC) or larger throughout Anchorage, within the built environment. The methodology can build upon the Clean
Coalition’s work conducting similar Solar Siting Surveys for other entities. The project will identify lower cost and
higher value renewable resource opportunities reflecting characteristics of all available sites in relation to existing
loads and electric grid infrastructure. Outcomes will guide the development of cost-effective local solar generation
within Anchorage.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

1. Select an area for case study, details are shown in the "Case Study" section
2. Rasterize the region and obtain information via different tools on ArcMap
3. Case study has to be comprehensive enough so the exported models and their corresponding python scripts can process
data from other similar regions. For example, model created in this project can also be used in San Francisco or other
regions with different latitude and longitude.


The followings are materials provided by Alaska Anchorage University:
1. EBCE case study (.kml)
2. EBCE project summary (.xlsx)
3. LIDAR data collected in 2015 (.las)
4. Buildings Polygon (.shp)
5. Address Point (.shp)
6. Arcgis license offered by instructor


## Case Study
The case region, where buildings, some parking lots and empty grounds exist in a well sorted pattern, was selected.
The selected las file name is 1659_2614.las. LAS file contains raw LIDAR point cloud data including x, y and z values.
By creating a new "LAS Dataset" it is possible to load the data into Arcmap. Creating masks that could trim unnecessary
and unwanted data points. Aspect, slope, solar radiation and human sorting are five masks necessary to create. After
masking out the useful area irradiation raster, zonal statistics are calculated based on buildings' polygons. Then the
mean value (if selected) of solar irradiation is presented on each building polygon provided. The table generated by
zonal statistics feature can be used for data processing. Also, since masks are account for slopes that are larger than
35 degrees, and aspect that does not face south, most of pipeline system, HVAC, ventilation and attics on the building
will not be included in the masked solar irradiation raster, thus the mean value calculated is relatively accurate. The
shape file eventually converts into .kml file, which can display in Google Earth Pro and Google Map.


### Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them

```
Give examples
```

### Installing

A step by step series of examples that tell you how to get a development env running

Say what the step will be

```
Give the example
```

And repeat

```
until finished
```

End with an example of getting some data out of the system or using it for a little demo

## Running the tests

Explain how to run the automated tests for this system

### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

### And coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

## Deployment

Add additional notes about how to deploy this on a live system

## Built With

* [Dropwizard](http://www.dropwizard.io/1.0.2/docs/) - The web framework used
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) - Dependency Management
* [ROME](https://rometools.github.io/rome/) - Used to generate RSS Feeds

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/b24679402957c63ec426) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning. For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/your/project/tags). 

## Authors

* **Jingtian Zhang** - *Initial work* - [PurpleBooth](https://github.com/PurpleBooth)

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/your/project/contributors) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to anyone whose code was used
* Inspiration
* etc


## Tips
1. This program is based on LIDAR data and corresponding building polygons extraction 
2. Python script generated by the model can process similar situations elsewhere
3. Due to limited access to ICA data, which can only be provided by local electricity company, ICA summary is abandoned
